What is Software?
o   Computer programs and associated documentation. Software products may be developed for a particular customer or may be developed for a general market
       What are the attributes of good software?
o   Good software should deliver the required functionality and performance to the user and should be maintainable, dependable and usable
       What is software engineering?
o   Software engineering is an engineering discipline that is concerned with all aspects of software production
       What are the fundamental software engineering activities?
o   Software specification, software development, software validation and software evolution.
       What is the difference between software engineering and computer science?
o   Computer science focuses on theory and fundamentals; software engineering is concerned with the practicalities of developing and delivering useful software.
       What is the difference between software engineering and system engineering?
o   System engineering is concerned with all aspects of computer-based systems development including hardware, software and process engineering. Software engineering is part of this more general process.
       What are key challenges facing software engineering?
o   Coping with increasing diversity, demands for reduced delivery times and developing trustworthy software.
       What are the costs of software engineering?
o   Roughly 60% of software costs are development costs, 40% are testing costs. For custom software, evolution costs often exceed development costs.
       What are the best software engineering techniques and methods?
o   While all software projects have to be professionally managed and developed, different techniques are appropriate for different types of system. For example, games should always be developed using a series of prototypes whereas safety critical control systems require a complete and analyzable specification to be developed. You can뭪, therefore, say that one method is better than another.
