Software Process Models
       The waterfall model
o   Plan-driven model. Separate and distinct phases of specification and development.
       Incremental development
o   Specification, development and validation are interleaved. May be plan-driven or agile.
       Integration and configuration
o   The system is assembled from existing configurable components. May be plan-driven or agile.
The Waterfall Model

Waterfall model problems
       Inflexible partitioning of the project into distinct stages makes it difficult to respond to changing customer requirements.
o   Therefore, this model is only appropriate when the requirements are well-understood and changes will be fairly limited during the design process.
o   Few business systems have stable requirements.
       The waterfall model is mostly used for large systems engineering projects where a system is developed at several sites.
o   In those circumstances, the plan-driven nature of the waterfall model helps coordinate the work.
Incremental development

Incremental development benefits
       The cost of accommodating changing customer requirements is reduced.
o   The amount of analysis and documentation that has to be redone is much less than is required with the waterfall model.
        It is easier to get customer feedback on the development work that has been done
o   Customers can comment on demonstrations of the software and see how much has been implemented.
       More rapid delivery and deployment of useful software to the customer is possible.
o   Customers are able to use and gain value from the software earlier than is possible with a waterfall process
Incremental development problems
       The process is not visible.
       Managers need regular deliverables to measure progress. If systems are developed quickly, it is not cost-effective to produce documents that reflect every version of the system.
        System structure tends to degrade as new increments are added.
o   Unless time and money is spent on refactoring to improve the software, regular change tends to corrupt its structure. Incorporating further software changes becomes increasingly difficult and costly.
Integration and configuration
       Based on software reuse where systems are integrated from existing components or application systems (sometimes called COTS -Commercial-off-the-shelf) systems).
       Reused elements may be configured to adapt their behaviour and functionality to a user뭩 requirements
       Reuse is now the standard approach for building many types of business system
