Agile project management
·       The principal responsibility of software project managers is to manage the project so that the software is delivered on time and within the planned budget for the project.
·        The standard approach to project management is plan driven. Managers draw up a plan for the project showing what should be delivered, when it should be delivered and who will work on the development of the project deliverables.
·       Agile project management requires a different approach, which is adapted to incremental development and the practices used in agile methods.
Scrum
·       Scrum is an agile method that focuses on managing iterative development rather than specific agile practices.
·        There are three phases in Scrum
o   The initial phase is an outline planning phase where you establish the general objectives for the project and design the software architecture.
o   This is followed by a series of sprint cycles, where each cycle develops an increment of the system.
o   The project closure phase wraps up the project, completes required documentation such as system help frames and user manuals and assesses the lessons learned from the project.
Scrum terminology

Scrum Sprint Cycle

·       Sprints are fixed length, normally 2–4 weeks.
·        The starting point for planning is the product backlog, which is the list of work to be done on the project.
·       The selection phase involves all of the project team who work with the customer to select the features and functionality from the product backlog to be developed during the sprint.
The Sprint cycle
·        Once these are agreed, the team organize themselves to develop the software.
·       During this stage the team is isolated from the customer and the organization, with all communications channelled through the so-called ‘Scrum master’.
·       The role of the Scrum master is to protect the development team from external distractions.
·       At the end of the sprint, the work done is reviewed and presented to stakeholders. The next sprint cycle then begins.
Scrum benefits
·       The product is broken down into a set of manageable and understandable chunks.
·       Unstable requirements do not hold up progress.
·       The whole team have visibility of everything and consequently team communication is improved.
