What is a requirement?
       It may range from a high-level abstract statement of a service or of a system constraint to a detailed mathematical functional specification.
       This is inevitable as requirements may serve a dual function
o    May be the basis for a bid for a contract - therefore must be open to interpretation;
o    May be the basis for the contract itself - therefore must be defined in detail;
o   Both these statements may be called requirements
Types of requirements
       User requirements
o   Statements in natural language plus diagrams of the services the system provides and its operational constraints. Written for customers.
        System requirements
o   A structured document setting out detailed descriptions of the system뭩 functions, services and operational constraints. Defines what should be implemented so may be part of a contract between client and contractor
Functional and non-functional requirements
       Functional requirements
o    Statements of services the system should provide, how the system should react to particular inputs and how the system should behave in particular situations.
o   May state what the system should not do.
       Non-functional requirements
o   Constraints on the services or functions offered by the system such as timing constraints, constraints on the development process, standards, etc.
o   Often apply to the system as a whole rather than individual features or services.
       Domain requirements 
o   Constraints on the system from the domain of operation
Functional requirements
       Describe functionality or system services.
        Depend on the type of software, expected users and the type of system where the software is used.
       Functional user requirements may be high-level statements of what the system should do.
        Functional system requirements should describe the system services in detail.
Requirements completeness and consistency
       In principle, requirements should be both complete and consistent.
        Complete
o    They should include descriptions of all facilities required.
       Consistent
o    There should be no conflicts or contradictions in the descriptions of the system facilities.
       In practice, because of system and environmental complexity, it is impossible to produce a complete and consistent requirements document.
Types of Non-functional requirements

Non-functional classifications
       Product requirements
o    Requirements which specify that the delivered product must behave in a particular way e.g. execution speed, reliability, etc.
       Organisational requirements
o   Requirements which are a consequence of organisational policies and procedures e.g. process standards used, implementation requirements, etc.
        External requirements
o    Requirements which arise from factors which are external to the system and its development process e.g. interoperability requirements, legislative requirements, etc.